Release Notes for Kyma 2.8 (#897)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2022-10-20-release-notes-2.8/index.md

---
title: "Kyma 2.8"
author:
  name: "Zhoujing Wang, RM @Kyma, and Maja Szostok, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes 
type: release 
releaseTag: "2.8.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-28"
---

We've been working as [busy bees](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96tOPyuhuJs) to present to you Kyma 2.8. We packed this release with upgrades, updates, and improvements, as well as some changes to prepare the ground for the features to come. For example, we introduced support for response rewriting in Application Gateway, and improved Secret rotation for LogPipelines, but there's much more!

While we get back to [beeing](https://youtu.be/eBMxaOeREHA?t=8) busy with what's next, you go and explore what we've prepared for you.

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

- [API Gateway](#api-gateway) - exposing workloads in multiple Namespaces with one APIRule
- [Application Connectivity](#application-connectivity) - response rewriting and updated status codes in Application Gateway
- [Eventing](#eventing) - upgrade to NATS 2.9.0

> - [Observability](#observability) - update to Jaeger 1.37, `node-exporter` 1.4.0, and Fluent Bit 1.9.9; OTLP support enabled, Secret rotation support for LogPipelines improved, Kiali deprecation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Observability](#observability) - Several component updates; Improved secret rotation support for LogPipelines; Kiali deprecation
```

- When the Application specified in the path does not exist,
- When the Application, service or entry is not passed in the path, or 
- When a call to target API times out.

For more details, see [Status codes for errors returned by Application Gateway](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/main/components/central-application-gateway/README.md#status-codes-for-errors-returned-by-application-gateway).

## Eventing

In Kyma 2.8, we upgraded the Eventing stack to NATS 2.9.0.

For more details on this version, see the official [NATS 2.9.0 release notes](https://docs.nats.io/release-notes/whats_new#server-release-v2.9.0).

## Observability

### Jaeger 

In preparation for the [bigger changes planned in the tracing area](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/tree/main/concepts/observability-strategy/configurable-tracing), we updated the Jaeger stack to [version 1.37](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/releases/tag/v1.37.0), and enabled [OTLP](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/protocol/) support. 
At the same time, the Serverless engine switched to OTLP as well, and is ready for the awesome future.

### Monitoring 

> In this release, we also updated Prometheus `node-exporter` to version 1.4.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, we also updated the Prometheus `node-exporter` to version 1.4.0 and to `kube-state-metrics` to version 2.6.0

```

> See the [`node-exporter` release notes](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter/releases) for more details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [`node-exporter` release notes](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter/releases/tag/v1.4.0) and [`kube-state-metrics` release notes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/releases/tag/v2.6.0) for more details. 
```

### Logging 

Yet another update that we made in this release is bumping Fluent Bit to [version 1.9.9](https://fluentbit.io/announcements/v1.9.9/). 

We also improved Secret rotation support for LogPipelines. A rotated Secret is now detected instantly.

> > **NOTE:** Mind that with [Kyma 2.6](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/8/25/release-notes-26/), the Fluent-Bit part of the Logging component was replaced by the new Telemetry component. Fluent Bit will be removed with the next Kyma release. If you have not adopted the change yet, do so now, or be rid of logs forever. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** Mind that with [Kyma 2.6](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/8/25/release-notes-26/), the Fluent-Bit part of the Logging component was replaced by the new Telemetry component. The Fluent Bit of the logging component will be removed with the next Kyma release. If you have not adopted the change yet, do so now. 
```

Author: In order to avoid duplication, I propose: 
```
This Fluent Bit part will be removed with the next Kyma release. If you have not adopted the change yet, do so now. ```

---
title: "Kyma 2.8"
author:
  name: "Zhoujing Wang, RM @Kyma, and Maja Szostok, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes 
type: release 
releaseTag: "2.8.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-28"
---

> We've been working as [busy bees](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96tOPyuhuJs) to present to you Kyma 2.8. We packed this release with upgrades, updates, and improvements, as well as some changes to prepare the ground for the features to come. For example, we introduced support for response rewriting in Application Gateway, and improved Secret rotation for LogPipelines, but there's much more!

Reviewer 2: 😍

> While we get back to [beeing](https://youtu.be/eBMxaOeREHA?t=8) busy with what's next, you go and explore what we've prepared for you.

Reviewer 2: rofl

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

- [API Gateway](#api-gateway) - exposing workloads in multiple Namespaces with one APIRule
- [Application Connectivity](#application-connectivity) - response rewriting and updated status codes in Application Gateway
- [Eventing](#eventing) - upgrade to NATS 2.9.0
- [Observability](#observability) - component updates, improved secret rotation support for LogPipelines, Kiali deprecation
- [Security](#security) - upgrade to Istio 1.15.0, `istio-init` container replaced with Istio CNI plugin

## API Gateway

### Exposing workloads in multiple Namespaces with one APIRule

This Kyma release comes with an update to the APIRule CR that lets you expose and secure services in multiple Namespaces. Now it’s possible to specify the service Namespace either on the **spec.service** level or individually for each service in **spec.rules**. This new field is optional. If you do not specify it, the default APIRule Namespace is used. 

For more details, see the [APIRule CR documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.8/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/apix-01-apirule).

> Check out also our new tutorial on how to [expose workloads in multiple Namespaces with a single APIRule definition](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.8/03-tutorials/00-api-exposure/apix-09-expose-workloads-multiple-namespaces/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, check out our new tutorial on how to [expose workloads in multiple Namespaces with a single APIRule definition](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.8/03-tutorials/00-api-exposure/apix-09-expose-workloads-multiple-namespaces/).
```
"also" in that place felt weird to me

## Application Connectivity

### Response rewriting in Application Gateway

> From this release, Application Gateway in Kyma supports redirects for the HTTP requests in which the URL host remains unchanged.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From this release on, Application Gateway in Kyma supports redirects for the HTTP requests in which the URL host remains unchanged.
```

Author: As discussed, it makes sense, but we usually drop the `on`, so I'd prefer to go with the usual :)

> The functionality makes the HTTP clients that originally called Application Gateway follow redirects through the Gateway, passing authorization, custom headers, URL parameters, and the body without an issue.

Reviewer 2: I had to read this sentence several times to parse it correctly in my head. Can we restructure/simplify it? 

```suggestion
Now, the HTTP clients that originally called Application Gateway will seamlessly follow redirects through the Gateway, passing authorization, custom headers, URL parameters, and the body.
```

```suggestion
Now, the HTTP clients that originally called Application Gateway will smoothly follow redirects through the Gateway, passing authorization, custom headers, URL parameters, and the body.
```

Wow it's hard to find an one-word adverb to replace "without issue" 😬  Not completely happy yet but maybe it's a starting point.

Author: It was smooth before as well, but did not include those headers and so on, and that was an issue. Knowing this, would you still rather change the phrasing to what you proposed?

Reviewer 2: Ah I see. So basically, more like that:

```suggestion
Now, the HTTP clients that originally called Application Gateway will follow the whole sequence of redirects through the Gateway, passing authorization, custom headers, URL parameters, and the body.
```

Author: Mhmm... it's not about the sequence of redirects, but about including stuff that must be included to process it properly at the end. I'll apply one of your suggestions or something based on them to make it clearer and not demanding heavy processing.

Author: ```suggestion
This functionality lets the HTTP client choose whether to resolve redirects within the scope of the same API. 
If so chosen, the HTTP client that originally called Application Gateway follows redirects through the Gateway, passing authorization, custom headers, URL parameters, and the body.
```

For more details, see [Application Gateway details](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.8/05-technical-reference/ac-01-application-gateway-details/).

### Status codes returned by Application Gateway

> In this release, we also updated the HTTP status codes that Application Gateway returns:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this release, we also updated the HTTP status codes that Application Gateway returns in the following cases:
```

> - When the Application specified in the path does not exist,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When the Application specified in the path does not exist.
```

> - When the Application, service or entry is not passed in the path, or 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When the Application, service or entry is not passed in the path.
```

- When a call to target API times out.

For more details, see [Status codes for errors returned by Application Gateway](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/release-2.8/components/central-application-gateway/README.md#status-codes-for-errors-returned-by-application-gateway).

## Eventing

### NATS upgraded to 2.9.0

In Kyma 2.8, we upgraded the Eventing stack to NATS 2.9.0.

For more details on this version, see the official [NATS 2.9.0 release notes](https://docs.nats.io/release-notes/whats_new#server-release-v2.9.0).

## Observability

### Jaeger 

In preparation for the [bigger changes planned in the tracing area](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/tree/main/concepts/observability-strategy/configurable-tracing), we updated the Jaeger stack to [version 1.37](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/releases/tag/v1.37.0), and enabled [OTLP](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/protocol/) support. 

> At the same time, the Serverless engine switched to OTLP as well, and is ready for the awesome future.

Reviewer 2: I know OneNote says that this is sufficient and thus Serverless doesn't mention it in their own section. But as a reader, scanning just the headlines the current draft creates the impression that nothing happened for Serverless with 2.8.

Author: I also wondered about it. Do you think we should add a Serverless section, write there that it switched to OTLP and refer to this section?

Reviewer 2: Yep! (if @a-thaler and @kwiatekus agree)

Reviewer 4: Additional input to serverless could look like:

Following the changes in Observability and opening new Open Telemetry Protocol compliant endpoints in Jaeger Serverless engine configure  functions to  sendtrace data to that new OTLP endpoint.
Functions build before 2.8 will continue sending trace data to the previous endpoint.
Read more [here](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/05-technical-reference/00-configuration-parameters/svls-02-environment-variables/)

### Deprecation of Kiali

The Kyma Observability feature was shifted in the direction of integration and openness to enable enterprise-grade qualities based on external services. 
See the blog post on [Observability strategy](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/9/21/observability-strategy) for more details. 
As a consequence, Kiali will be removed in Kyma 2.10. See the blog post on [Kiali deprecation](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/10/10/Kiali-deprecation/).

Worry not, though, as you can still integrate it on your own. 
We've got you covered, and we've prepared a tutorial on how to [install custom Kiali in Kyma](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/blob/main/kiali/README.md).
 
## Security

### Istio upgraded to 1.15.0 

In this Kyma release, Istio was upgraded to version 1.15.0. 

For more details on the changes, read the official [Istio 1.15.0 release notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.15.x/announcing-1.15/). 

### Istio CNI plugin

> This Kyma version introduces the Istio CNI plugin. The plugin replaces the Istio `istio-init` container, and it provides the same networking functionality, but it doesn't require Istio users to have elevated Kubernetes RBAC permission. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This Kyma version introduces the Istio CNI plugin. The plugin replaces the `istio-init` container, and it provides the same networking functionality, but it doesn't require Istio users to have elevated Kubernetes RBAC permission. 
```

Author: Oh, that totally makes sense! Thanks!

---
title: "Kyma 2.8"
author:
  name: "Zhoujing Wang, RM @Kyma, and Maja Szostok, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes 
type: release 
releaseTag: "2.8.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-28"
---

We've been working as [busy bees](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96tOPyuhuJs) to present to you Kyma 2.8. We packed this release with upgrades, updates, and improvements, as well as some changes to prepare the ground for the features to come. For example, we introduced support for response rewriting in Application Gateway, and improved Secret rotation for LogPipelines, but there's much more!

While we get back to [beeing](https://youtu.be/eBMxaOeREHA?t=8) busy with what's next, you go and explore what we've prepared for you.

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

- [API Gateway](#api-gateway) - exposing workloads in multiple Namespaces with one APIRule
- [Application Connectivity](#application-connectivity) - response rewriting and updated status codes in Application Gateway

> - [Eventing](#eventing) - upgrade to NATS 2.9.0

Reviewer 5: this will be already part of 2.7.3
```suggestion
```

> - [Observability](#observability) - component updates, improved secret rotation support for LogPipelines, Kiali deprecation

Author: I did that and then @a-thaler changed it to lowercase.

> - [Observability](#observability) - component updates, improved secret rotation support for LogPipelines, Kiali deprecation

Author: But it's still uppercase anywhere else. I'm unifying that. Thanks!

> - [Observability](#observability) - component updates, improved secret rotation support for LogPipelines, Kiali deprecation

Reviewer 6: Ok, so I think it should be changed to lowercase in your Intro and the Logging section as well

From this release, Application Gateway in Kyma supports redirects for the HTTP requests in which the URL host remains unchanged.

With this functionality, the HTTP client has the option to resolve redirects within the scope of the same API.
If so configured, the HTTP client that originally called Application Gateway follows redirects through the Gateway, passing authorization, custom headers, URL parameters, and the body.

For more details, see [Application Gateway details](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.8/05-technical-reference/ac-01-application-gateway-details/).

### Status codes returned by Application Gateway

In this release, we also updated the HTTP status codes that Application Gateway returns in the following cases:
- When the Application specified in the path does not exist.
- When the Application, service or entry is not passed in the path.
- When a call to target API times out.

For more details, see [Status codes for errors returned by Application Gateway](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/release-2.8/components/central-application-gateway/README.md#status-codes-for-errors-returned-by-application-gateway).

## Eventing

> ### NATS upgraded to 2.9.0

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### NATS upgraded to 2.9.3
```

> In Kyma 2.8, we upgraded the Eventing stack to NATS 2.9.0.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In Kyma 2.8, we upgraded the Eventing stack to NATS 2.9.3.
```

> For more details on this version, see the official [NATS 2.9.0 release notes](https://docs.nats.io/release-notes/whats_new#server-release-v2.9.0).

Reviewer 5: For the reviewer: Even though we upgrade to 2.9.3 we can only link to 2.9.0 here. release notes for 2.9.3 simply dont exist

> ## Eventing
> 
> ### NATS upgraded to 2.9.0
> 
> In Kyma 2.8, we upgraded the Eventing stack to NATS 2.9.0.
> 
> For more details on this version, see the official [NATS 2.9.0 release notes](https://docs.nats.io/release-notes/whats_new#server-release-v2.9.0).
> 

Reviewer 5: Already part of 2.7.3
```suggestion
```

### Deprecation of Kiali

The Kyma Observability feature was shifted in the direction of integration and openness to enable enterprise-grade qualities based on external services. 
See the blog post on [Observability strategy](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/9/21/observability-strategy) for more details. 
As a consequence, Kiali will be removed in Kyma 2.10. See the blog post on [Kiali deprecation](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/10/10/Kiali-deprecation/).

Worry not, though, as you can still integrate it on your own. 
We've got you covered, and we've prepared a tutorial on how to [install custom Kiali in Kyma](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/blob/main/kiali/README.md).
 
## Security

### Istio upgraded to 1.15.0 

In this Kyma release, Istio was upgraded to version 1.15.0. 

For more details on the changes, read the official [Istio 1.15.0 release notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.15.x/announcing-1.15/). 

### Istio CNI plugin

> This Kyma version introduces the Istio CNI plugin. The plugin replaces the `istio-init` container, and it provides the same networking functionality, but it doesn't require Istio users to have elevated Kubernetes RBAC permission. 

Author: I'd rather keep the pronoun, as it's sort of a separate piece of information, not something that's been modified in Kyma.

## Application Connectivity

### Response rewriting in Application Gateway

From this release, Application Gateway in Kyma supports redirects for the HTTP requests in which the URL host remains unchanged.

The functionality makes the HTTP clients that originally called Application Gateway follow redirects through the Gateway, passing authorization, custom headers, URL parameters, and the body without an issue.

For more details, see [Application Gateway details](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/05-technical-reference/ac-01-application-gateway-details/).

### Status codes returned by Application Gateway

This release of Kyma brings changes that include HTTP status codes returned by Application Gateway. This has been implemented in cases: when the application specified in the path does not exist, the application, service or entry is not passed in the path, or when call to target API timeouts.

For more information on what status codes are currently used, see the [documentation](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/main/components/central-application-gateway/README.md).

## Eventing

The Eventing stack has been upgraded to NATS 2.9.0.

## Observability

### Jaeger 

> As preparation for the bigger changes planned in the tracing area (see https://github.com/kyma-project/community/tree/main/concepts/observability-strategy/configurable-tracing) we updated the Jaeger stack to the latest version 1.37 and enabled OTLP support. At the same time the serverless engine switched to OTLP as well and is ready for the awesome future.

Author: >we updated the Jaeger stack to the latest version 1.37

@a-thaler I'm afraid it's not the latest version anymore :( They already have [1.38.1 out](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/releases/tag/v1.38.1).

> At the same time the serverless engine switched to OTLP as well and is ready for the awesome future.
@a-thaler @kwiatekus Do we mean our Serverless here, or is there simply a "serverless engine" somewhere in the Observability area that we're talking about here? I'm not familiar with the domain enough to figure this out on my own.

Reviewer: It is our Serverless. and yes, it is not the latest jaeger anymore, feel free to remove "latest"

### Monitoring 

Update to node-exporter 1.4.0.

### Logging 

Update to Fluent Bit 1.9.9 

Improved secret rotation support for LogPipelines. A rotated secret will be detected instantly now.

Reminder: with https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/8/25/release-notes-26/ the fluent-bit part of the logging component got replaced by the new telemetry component. It will be removed with next kyma release. If you have not adopted to the change yet, please do so now. 

### Deprecation of Kiali

> The Kyma Observability feature got a shift into the direction of integration and openness, to enable enterprise-grade qualities based on external services, see https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/9/21/observability-strategy for more details. As part of that, a tutorial got introduced on how to integrate Kiali on your own (see this links) with the consequence of getting the Kiali component removed with kyma 2.10.

Author: > (...) a tutorial got introduced on how to integrate Kiali on your own (see this links) (...) 

@a-thaler Do you have these links by any chance? They have not been provided so far. 
I suppose one might be this https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/blob/main/kiali/README.md (can you confirm?), but it says `links` (plural), so I don't know what else it could be.

Reviewer: I wrote a blog post which we should link: https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/10/10/Kiali-deprecation/
and yes, the instructions are located at https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/blob/main/kiali/README.md
That are all links we have :)

> The Kyma Observability feature got a shift into the direction of integration and openness, to enable enterprise-grade qualities based on external services, see https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/9/21/observability-strategy for more details. As part of that, a tutorial got introduced on how to integrate Kiali on your own (see this links) with the consequence of getting the Kiali component removed with kyma 2.10.

Author: @a-thaler 
Also, [our guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/02-style-and-terminology.md#terminology) say not to promise things and to write only about stuff that's already implemented. 
Should we really mention a specific version in which we're going to remove Kiali? 
I'd strongly advise against it, and say `in a future release` at the most. 
WDYT?

Reviewer: People need an idea on how much time they still have.. if that promise is not fullfilling no one will be upset but potentially more happy. SO I prefer to keep it, I noted it down in our backlog to keep it
